Spreadsheets (#1783)
enkidevs/curriculum: excel/beginner/data-validation-filtering-grouping/data-validation.md

---
author: Stefan-Stojanovic

levels:
  - beginner

aspects:
  - new
  - workout

type: normal

category: must-know

---

# Data Validation

---
## Content

> Excel has a feature called "Data Validation" which you can use to force a particular input into a cell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Excel has a feature called "Data Validation" which you can use to constrain a particular input into a cell.

```

For instance, you can make a cell be of type `date` and only allow actual date input or a date `after`, `before` or even `between` a certain date.

> To open `data validation` you can either go to(Google sheets):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To open `data validation` you can either go to (Google sheets):

```

![how-to-open-data-validation](https://img.enkipro.com/8cd2e9b2913a5dc3f348d3b93c90c3ea.png)

or right-click any cell and select `data validation` at the bottom.

> The difference between these two ways of opening `data validation` is if you right-click a cell, it will select that cell to be validated. However, if you open it like in the picture above, you will have to select the cells on your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The difference between these two ways of opening `data validation` is if you right-click a cell, it will select that cell to be validated. However, if you open it like in the image above, you will have to select the cells on your own.

```

This will give you a popup window like so:

![data-validation](https://img.enkipro.com/e8e5151a6a2d4745a003e7c1b888ef7f.png)

To select a cell click on `Cell range` and click on a cell. 

> To select a range of cells starting from a cell, click on a cell and drag in any direction to select a range of cells you want to use this validation on. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To select a range of cells, click on a particular cell and drag towards the cells on which you want to use a validation. 
```

Under "Criteria" there are several options:

![criteria-options](https://img.enkipro.com/ba4bb0f6f2fd08fb155c92ae0365a658.png)

> And each `option` has a different set of `sub-options` that will appear on the right side after choosing one. 

Reviewer: "option" and "sub-options" aren't special words in any way, right?

```suggestion
Each option has a different set of sub-options that will appear on the right side after choosing one. 

```

Author: Right

Whereas if it is not selected, it will display this message:
`The data you entered in cell D11 violates the data validation rules set on this cell.`

The `D11` is the cell we chose to validate and this part of the message is changed depending on the cell.

In our example, we have selected a `date` `between` `1/2000` and `1/2010` with `reject input` and an `appearance` message in the field `D11`.

Now we are going to write `Input a date between 1/2000 and 1/2010:` in a cell left of `D11` to tell users what to input.

Now that our data validation is done, this is how our cell looks like when we hover over it:
![image-of-appearance](https://img.enkipro.com/2ecbd3b0dbdbad4fa6eb4f318963123a.png)

How it looks when there is a wrong input:
![image-of-rejected-input](https://img.enkipro.com/6f9321ee5bb2fa4e89c8816a334ff61a.png)

To remove a data validation, all you have to do is right-click the cell you want to remove the validation, open `data validation` and click `remove validation`.

Example:

![how-to-remove-gif](https://img.enkipro.com/5942bfe502242b44c2253ac4f6de6b19.gif)

---
## Practice

What is `Data validation`?

`Data Validation` is ???

> * a feature in Excel used to force a particular input into a cell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a feature in Excel used to constrain a particular input into a cell.

```
